---
layout: post
author: Adam Gonda
minutes: 5
tags:
  - Tutorial
  - Coding
  - Game
  - JavaScript
titles:
  - Intro
  - Setup
  - Example
  - API
  - Result
  - Next steps
---

The goal of this post is to introduce the `console-runner` package.
Show it's API through a toy example and tell a bit about it's inner workings.

{% include post-content-list.html titles=page.titles %}

# Intro

If you ever created a game before, you know that in every game, there is a
game loop at the core, and its job is to keep updating the game until we exit.
In this case, the `console-runner` will provide our game loop, beside its other
responsibilities seen ⬇️

{% include post-image.html
  src='snake-overview.jpg'
  date=page.date
%}

It is a nice practice to separate the presentation
from the business logic. This approach simplifies
our application and sets clear boundaries.
So when we implement the game, our only job will be
to deal with the game specific issues.

# Setup

<p>Create a folder and open it with VS Code:</p>{: .pre-code}
```js
mkdir snake-game && cd snake-game && code .
```

<p>Create a package.json file:</p>{: .pre-code}
```js
npm init -y
```

<p>Create a game.js file:</p>{: .pre-code}
```js
touch game.js
```

<p>Install the console-runner package:</p>{: .pre-code}
```js
npm i adamgonda/console-runner
```

# Example

```js
// in game.js

const { run } = require('console-runner')

run({
  initialState: {
    player: {
      x: 10,
      y: 5,
    },
  },
  toCommon: state => [
    {
      ...state.player,
      tag: 'player',
    },
  ],
  update: (state, input) => state,
  renderMap: {
    player: 'X',
  },
  dimensions: {
    WIDTH: 20,
    HEIGHT: 10,
  },
})
```

Then run it with Node.

```js
node game.js
```

If you did everything right, you have to see something like this.
Try to play around with this. For example see what happens
if you press AWSD or mess with the `update` function. Familiarize
yourself with it, because we will use this during the course.

```js
{ player: { x: 10, y: 5 } }
input null
-----------------------
|                     |
|                     |
|                     |
|                     |
|                     |
|          X          |
|                     |
|                     |
|                     |
|                     |
|                     |
-----------------------
```

# API

**initialState**: will be the starting point of our game,
here we provide a state that we like to have at the
beginning

**toCommon**: is a function that is specific to a given game,
it's job is to transform the game state into a common format,
which is a list of objects, that has
an `x`, `y` and a `tag` property. So the `console-runner`
knows where and how to render them.

**update**: is a function that holds our game logic,
the `console-runner` calls it before every render.
it gets a state and an input from the
`console-runner` than returns a new state

**renderMap**: here you can specify a mapping between tags
to ASCII characters, so the `console-runner` will
render your game as you like

**dimensions**: tells how big view the `console-runner` has to create

# Next steps

You did great and reached the end of this section.
Next we will start to check out snake and the
different features we have to implement.
