---
layout: post
author: Adam Gonda
minutes: 3
tags:
  - Creative
  - Design
  - Coding
  - Challenge
  - FunMonth 0
titles:
  - Examination
  - Collect data
  - Test
---

I didn't felt great lately, I watched too much YouTube, movies, series. Listened to too many podcasts,
eat too much. So I thought something has to change.

{% include post-content-list.html titles=page.titles %}

# Examination

First I tried to find the reasons why I feel shitty. Then Jordan Peterson came to my mind, and the things he said when he talked about creative people, more precisely that you are like a fruit-bearing tree, you can suppress your true nature about the fact, that you have to have create stuff but you probably will feel terrible.

I also played around with this idea for a while about the fact that we people, or at least me, have a certain limit on how many things I can digest mentally. I tend to think about it from a reductionist point of view, in which you are like a function with a certain throughput limit. If the throughput is too high you feel overwhelmed, and if it is too low you feel bored.

# Collect data

So I created a table with two columns Input and Output, and I started to collect all the things I do during a day.
First to confirm my suspicion about the imbalance of my mental diet. I added things like watching YouTube videos,
eating, working out, reading the news, listening to podcasts, and I placed them into the right column in a table based on
whether I consumed something during the activity or created something. The result was that I consume a lot,
much more than I should be, and much more than I create. :D

# Test

Therefore I decided to test my idea about this I/O stuff and see if I will feel better if I consume less and create more,
so I started this challenge. I have to create something every day, for a month, starting today. It doesn't matter what it is, the point
is that it has to be some kind of artifact that I can show here. A piece of code, drawing, music, blog post, anything.
And along with this I also try to reduce my consumption. 
